PROJECT TITLE 9238 - Fake News Detection Using NLP

NAME - DHIVYADHARSHINI A

TEAM ID -  5275

TEAM NAME - Proj_204221_Team_2

COLLEGE CODE - NAME : 9238 - MANGAYARKARASI COLLEGE OF ENGINEEING PARAVAI, MADURAI.

GROUP : 5 

GITHUB REPOSITORY LINK : https://github.com/dhivyadhar/IBM_AI.git


The Following Files contents are uploaded in my Github Repository

Phase 1: Problem Definition and Design Thinking

Phase 2: Innovation

Phase 3: Development Part 1 [Loading and Preprosing the Dataset].

Phase 4: Development Part 2 [Training and Evaluation]

Phase 5: Project Documentation & Submission

ABSTRACT:

This research employs natural language processing (NLP) techniques to construct a robust model for fake news detection. By analyzing linguistic patterns and content characteristics, the model distinguishes between false and authentic news articles. This work contributes to the vital mission of curtailing the proliferation of misinformation, enhancing information reliability, and reinforcing media credibility.


Procedure For Using our Program 

Step 1: Install Python IDE From the following Website

https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.10.9/python-3.10.9-amd64.exe

Step 2: Install Jupyter notebook by run the command in the command prompt (cmd)

pip install notebook

Step 3: Install all required pakages according to the project

pip install pandas
pip install numpy
pip install matplotlib
pip install seaborns
pip install scikit-learn
pip install nltk
pip install tensorflow 
pip install tensorflow scikit-learn

Step 4: Run the Notebook by using the Command in cmd

jupyter notebook

Step 5: Once the notebook opened then upload the Dataset and project Notebook .ipynb File in the Home Path

http://localhost:8888/tree

Step 6: Select the project file

Step 7: After selection,Open the project file AI_Phase5.ipynb.

Step 8: Run the Cell one by one.

Step 9: Before running the cells,provide a new news as a data at the last cell in which is needed to be predicted as fake or real.

Step 9: After Running all the cells,It gives the out comes for the news as a fake or true to the last cell program. 

NOTE : This project will help you to be aware from fake news and safeguards the integrity of information, and strengthens the foundation of a well-informed society. The project was tested with fake and real news data.

Thank You.....
